I hope you'll go along with this rather
unusual setting and the fact that I
remain seated when I get introduced and
the fact that I'm going to come to you
mostly through this medium here for the
rest of the show
and I should tell you that I'm backed up
by quite a staff of people between here
in mineral park or Stanford Research is
located some 30 miles south of here and
if every one of us does our job well
we'll all go very interesting I think
the research program that i'm going to
describe to you is quickly
characterisible by saying if in your
office you as an intellectual worker
were supplied with a computer display
backed up by a computer that was alive
for you all day
and was instantly responsible responsive
instantly responsive to every action you
had how much value could you drive from
that well this basically characterizes
what we've been pursuing for many years
in what we call the Augmented human
intellect Research Center at Stanford
Research Institute now the whole session
is going to be devoted to trying to
describe and present to you the nature
of this program but unfortunately
unfortunately the products of this
program the technology of a lends itself
well to an interesting way to portray it
for you so we're going to try our best
to show you rather than tell you about
this program a very essential part of
what we have developed technologically
is what does come through this display
to us and I'm going to start out without
telling you very much about the program
and just run through a little bit of the
action that this provides us so in my
office I have a console like this and
there are 12 others at our computer
supplies and we try nowadays to do our
daily work on here so this characterizes
the way I could sit here and look at a
blank piece of paper that's the way I
start many projects so with my system
that's a good start
I'll sit here and say I'd like to load
that in
so sorry so I'm putting in an entity
called a statement and that's full of
other entities called words and if I
make some mistakes I can back up a
little bit so I have a statement with
some entities words and I can do some
operations on these I can copy a word
say that word like copy after itself
in fact that pair of words I like to
copy after itself and I can just do this
a few times and get a bit of material
there and there other entities like text
say after there I'd like to copy from
that and it point to that point and it
will copy it right so I could get myself
some material on my blank piece of paper
and then I'd say well this is going to
be more important than it looks so I'd
like to set up a file so I tell a
machine alright
output to a file and it says I need name
I'll give it a name I'll say it sample
file and I'll say please output it it
says it did and then it comes back
automatically with a origin statement or
header telling me the name of the file
and the date and the time and who
established it and thereafter I can
always do something I can ask for the
status of a file and it will tell me
that information very small file now
owned by me last Whitham by me
very shortly ago etc another interesting
date in there so we've seen how we can
start with a blank piece of paper and go
to developing a file this file has one
statement with a few words in it let's
make more statements I'll say copy that
statement and only hold add another one
copy that one another one I can even
copy groups of statements I can say
after that one copy to move from there
to there it does I can look at that and
say hmm probably goes off the screen
it'd be interesting if I could ask the
computer to collapse that perhaps to
show me just the first line of each of
those statements
please do that so it did this is one
aspect of what we'll use over and over
again through this presentation what we
call view control where no matter where
in a file we're looking we can ask it to
use any wonderful large number of
parameters for constructing a view at
that point in the file that best suits
our need at the time this one wants us
to give an overview of the thing so I'll
say well I have this I don't want them
all to be statement one so I'll just
replace the word there with the two and
how about that one with a three just the
place to forget how to come so I can
look and say I got statements one two
three and four if I'd like to make them
a little prettier I can I can work in
keeping them up a little but that isn't
what I always do oops you can tell that
I have not warmed up yet I hope you can
tell right alright so I'm going to meand
up lined up and I can say for instance
other entities like an invisible string
I don't know whether that's tabs or
characters in there but I can say if I
want to and place that invisible replace
that invisible string with just one
character not that character that one
space and it'll do it so I can look at
that and say I have files one two three
four five six and I've named them that
way but that's usually a sort of a pain
to do that so I'll ask it to number them
themselves and one of the views is such
that it will give you a list numbering
for each of those statements and I can
also open them all up or a scandal out
numbers however I wish and then I can
output them so we've seen ways to work
fairly fast with the entities of a
statement in a file create a file I can
delete that file or mess it up
considerably like if I'm going to say I
want to delete that word by accidentally
hit
and Eddie instead watch what happens
sort of replaces the whole thing there's
nothing that occasionally happens so you
say I I'll load that file it'll come
back in as it was I last saved it
telling me the date that I wrote it and
unfortunately I didn't say it enough
well I'm through with this example right
now let me go to a file that I prepared
just after my wife called me and said on
the way home would you do little
shopping for me so as soon as she said
that I got my system organized
and made a shopping list so it's got
quite a few items on it and if I want to
I can see that yes those are numbers
numbered statements and I can say there
ways I can scan down it like I can point
to Tim and say put it at the top and I
scan up the point 223 and I got quite a
few and I remember that's about as far
as he got when she said well call me
back when you're ready to go shopping
and I'll tell you the rest of the things
so let me jump back to the head of the
list and I can do things like begin to
reorganize it a little bit well I say
after bananas it's more likely that I'll
take the carrots there and so carrots
moved right up behind bananas an aspirin
doesn't really belong there I think I
asked me was after paper towels and the
order well pretty soon I would I would
begin to have a lot of trouble keeping
that straight so let me organize it by
saying just generally produce
I'm going to try to my interest
statement is hey hi there
I see stuck that something's going wrong
and I would call the programmer or the
hardware man and tell him I made it
products I really AM warmed up to this
thing yet so I'll say well produce I'll
categorize things let me look at it that
way and I'll say let me move a statement
for produce carrots and I'd like to sub
categorizing it so it moved and there it
is
alright Prados I've got carrots and I'll
move under there also bananas and in
fact I could move a whole group under
they're saying oranges and apples also
so I can begin categorizing things like
that and if I look at the numbers now
I'd find that these and these items fit
under there as a subset and I realize I
can categorize quite extensively I could
introduce a new thing under there there
was something I just invented a skinless
banana but I have to go there
and look at it so part of our view
control besides this thing we've shown
you of showing numbers or not is also
whether we can show you some of these
different levels or not I can say I want
to see two levels or only one level deep
in there it makes it very nice for
studying it or I can do something like
when I say let's put produce at the top
let's open up one level below it and
only show me what's below it and another
level if I wish and then no numbers so
these moving around will jump to
identities there are many ways to move
around and to make views and this this
is one of the basic features of this
tool we have well suppose I work for
some time at this and then call my wife
to get the rest of the list I'd
eventually end up with a whole structure
where I could say gee there were a lot
of things in markets you store I have to
stop - let me see what I'm supposed to
get in the market well produce cans
cereals what about cereals
all cereals bread noodles like that okay
back up there if I want to look at the
numbers that's what I can't I want to
open up everything see that or any lines
there are many ways in which I can look
at that and uh but one interesting thing
here that I haven't told you about is
that when the numbers are on I can do
something like say instead of jump to
identity and pointing to that and having
it bring to the top or jumping return
back I can say a jump to a name and say
go to to a four and it'll do it or
return so I can jump to a location
number just by giving it or if I wish I
can add it add it as text in there and
say jump to name
just point to that it'll go to a visible
carats honey all right carats to a four
so I gave it the name of that can go to
it I give it the names of I don't know
that I guess they go to one which is out
of sight from here now and say jump to
that and a 1 different views so it's
very easy to jump around and make cross
references it turns out if I wish I can
also make a cross reference to something
where I gave it a label or a name such
as you do when you're programming I can
call this alpha' because they jump to
name and I could type it I think I made
a mistake with the type it so what I
should really do is say I'd like to
weaken form my whole picture so there
it's going to say name and I jump to
something named alpha there
all right so I can give names and I can
say in here a reference like that or I
can say jump to name a point to that
and lo and behold I'll go to this thing
that was I named alpha so I can name it
and if I want to I can ask to see the
name or I can ask not to see the names
depending on which right now would
happen not be seeing the names
so look what else we can do in here I've
got this file that's structured if I
want to see what's in there I can walk
down the hierarchy levels and see or
return but there's another thing I can
do this route I said I have here
so here I'm afraid I'll need a different
picture the view so here's what I do
with a picture drawing capability it's a
slight and lap if I start from work and
here's the route I seem to have to go to
to pick up all the materials and that's
my plan for getting home tonight but if
I want to I can say the library what am
I supposed to pick up there I can just
point to that you know I see overdue
books and all while there was
sustainment there with that name on it
go back what if I once am I supposed to
pick up the drugstore hmm I see you've
everything all right market oh I've
already seen that I don't know like that
gee that's too much anyway so we have
this feature the structuring our
material they are quickly they give them
the move around it very well when we get
a hierarchy
such as I can show you here
I can do things if I want to just say
I'd like to interchange produce and
canned materials bingo they're all
numbered writing if I care to look
interchanging them very quickly cans are
going to get interchanged with produce
they do it and all gets me numbered so I
have ways of studying over making
different views moving around going to
specified points and modifying the
structure at the same time I seen that I
have a repertoire of different entities
my character knock off that character
replace the character make that P so I
have entities of all sorts that I can
say I want to do operations on and this
basic structure that I can move over and
study and get about very quickly so that
is the essence No
that's the essence of the tool we have a
lot of details that I've left out for
you
and now I'd like to stop a minute and
just make sure you understand we're
shifting from illustrative material to
the real working stuff in case you
wouldn't recognize it otherwise we've
had that we've used this tool to do our
daily work and it's our system has been
built this time sharing system for about
6 months now it's been working and in
that time we've gone from it getting one
console to getting about six working now
with six more do the rest of spring is
our fourth computer which we had this
kind of a system so we've learned a lot
about the user features we want and how
to be fairly skillful but this next step
about learning how when you're faced
with having this in your office all day
as I now do very exciting sense how do
you put that to work for yourself how do
you organize your files what kind of
things do you do so to get going on this
let's switch away from the tool we have
here and talk about some of the general
features of the program some of the ways
it's built and get back a little later
to the nature of the of our usage of it
all right let me get back in this
material here's just the outline I'm
going to use you can realize that it's a
file these are statements and we're
probably looking at the top level of
them and the first one the introduction
you can consider we've done and the next
one overall about program its what I'm
going to do now well I'm going to do
something called jump on a link and the
link is something that will go between
files so what it's going to do and says
I'm going to go to your file name and
see NRO and the link also says we're in
that file and just what you would want
so I do like that I'm in the middle of
that other file looking at this
particular material that's been carved
out by the specifications on that link
and this is telling me to make a
preparation to start on a presentation
but I should also remember
I'm going back to this other file
because what I want to do is restore
restore a different kind
I had go to a different file in which
because I made a hitch in my rehearsing
for this thing in which I have many
types of format structure set up and
numbered and I just reset the kind that
I want to use to show you this material
we're very flexible with it for instance
I can say I'd like to restore number
seven is a horrible example see I can
have many ways in which I can control
all of the parameters character size
spacing location everything else but I
don't usually go to this extreme but
it's just showing you that I can the one
I want right now is the one that shows
you a simple large view we usually work
with a view we usually work with
something like this or when we're
working with our closed spaces we can do
quite well but it's felt that that would
be a little hard for people to see so
we're using it like this where we don't
see as much material but they're large
and clear so not only back go back to
that file I came here from and say
alright now I'm ready I'd like to jump
and learn about the program when I get
in here now it looks different as it
should here's them here's this is
another file and in this file
I prepared a chain of views and I using
some of the tools I have it all set so I
go from one scene to the other I could
study them in the fashion I've shown you
before but it's sort of fun to set up
these change and it represents to you
away in which we work too so to do it
I'm going to freeze a statement that's
named a and I'm going to put on a
certain parameter when I do it then I'm
going to jump to a link and here's a
link says you want to go to statement a
but after the : all this garbage tells a
bunch of abbreviated ways in which you'd
like to control the view when you get
there many parameters is you'll notice
so I'll just say I go to that one and
I'm looking at
in a now it's telling me this
presentation is devoted to the hir see
the natural question is what's that
there was another booboo I made I left
several statements frozen this statement
I've asked to be frozen that was the
setup operation it's just going to stay
there above that dotted line as the
viewing part of my screen from there
down jumps around on the links I have
set up okay the first jump took me to
this statement saying I admitted human
intellect research centers what hir C
stands for a hidden link will take me to
the next one
tell me what's located that NSRI it's an
explicit organizational entity and we
call a group level but also I'd like to
point out there other man computer work
going on a DES RI in ours is but one so
if I jump on a link incidentally I
should just stop and reveal to you that
the link is hidden under there I was
very clever to set the viewing
parameters so they wouldn't show the
link when I say jump to link and market
there the computer goes looking from
there on for that link and a basic and
I'm not showing the statement names
either but this a statement named B
obviously so that program involves about
17 people together with a special
laboratory facilities we have it's
sponsored by government agencies
exclusively ARPA NASA and IDC now in the
past Air Force are an ESD and these are
the people that first grubstaked as many
years ago and it's been a goal-oriented
pursuit for many years and I think we
can just go off and get a quick little
picture I sketch to show this is the
staffing over the years from 1950 on and
it's had slightly bumpy history during
these years there was only one of us
I go back to where I was and say let's
continue on in this file that link took
me up to a different file to a statement
for that view and I jump back to this
file where I was and now within this
file and I can link to another to say
the hir C is pursuing these goals basic
goal will improve the effectiveness with
which individuals and organizations work
at intellectual tasks what does their
effectiveness involve them better
solutions faster solutions solutions to
more complex problems better use of
human capabilities really thinking about
that but a corollary goal is besides
improving the effectiveness to develop a
system oriented discipline for designing
the means by which greater effectiveness
is achieved that's very important to us
the approach for this shouldn't result
in this system oriented discipline let
me just show you how I constructed this
file you notice underneath there with
that and that there was just a link
hidden here it went back to this view
with a slightly different new parameters
to give you that view alright there's
another one hidden here
it says the general approach for us
empirical we're pursuing this monstrous
goal monstrously difficult to by
building and trying empirically and
we're approaching an evolutionary wise
because we feel that it's a whole system
problem you need to get a person in that
environment working and looking at the
many aspects of his working system that
are involved in his effectiveness that's
many more things than just these
computer-aided tools in a large system
like that we need to do at evolutionary
wise because we can't be analytic enough
about it at any one point to decide what
best our next thing should be we can
only decide from here as well as we can
analyze
where we can invest our next resources
to get the most return and it increases
the effectiveness of the system we have
in this item down here
is the term bootstrapping applied in a
slightly new sense we're applying that
to our approach where we're saying we
need a a research subject group to give
them these tools put them to work with
them study them and improve them
aha we'll do that by making ourselves be
the subject group and studying ourselves
in making the tools so that they improve
our ability to develop and study these
kinds of systems and to produce in the
end this kind of system discipline so
it's going to it's a struggle doing it
that way but it's beginning to pay off
all right from there sorry
I'm cEPAL ajay zhing to my friend the
computer I said jump to link and hit it
up here and it went and found these
parentheses starting here and says
that's not a link I should have hit it
here I didn't find a real link and I'm
back in this list here and I've given
you an overall picture about the program
and that's out of the way and I can just
move my marker down and say let's save
that version so this tool in pursuing
those goals on our principal tools is
this computer aid system let's talk
about it as a system there's a link
sequence to jump in there to where we
talk about NLS in the online system a
very general term it's going to be NLS
for many many years an online system
that will involve evolve right now we
consider it to be primarily an
instrument in the vehicle for helping
humans to operate within the domain of
complex information structures well we
what do we mean by operate well compose
study modify as the place we started now
we know there are many other analytic
liens you to do but we want to get
around study and modify and then to
further information about what is
complex structure mean we're talking
about complex structure and emphasizing
structure because we say although the
content represents your concepts there's
a structural relationship between that
content entities that should represent
the relationship between the concepts of
human thought alright we know can do
that very well with linear text so
inside the computer we can represent
that quite well in fact we can represent
information structures in a computer
that would generally be more far too
complex for you to study directly but
nls serves as a tool to roam over that
navigate through a complex structure be
able to find your way be navigating move
about it rapidly they will see what you
want to see at any given point how we
think and then LS as a tool alright
these are all very important concepts to
us because these together the
bootstrapping that told us where to
start we start by building an instrument
that we can sit at work during our day
to organize the kind of working
information we need is a task force
developing systems will need to write
our specifications our plans our
programs our users guides our
documentation our reports and even our
proposals so we've been using these when
you return back here and said I finished
that version and to help you keep track
of where we are and in a little bit to
help me to we'll move that down so
having gone through these items I'd like
to come in now begin to telling you
something about the implementation so
I'm going to open up under here and talk
to you about the control techniques
control devices control dialogue and
control metalanguage that we're using ok
to talk about control devices we'll use
this overhead camera shot where you can
see the devices that I'm using is three
and they're not all standard we have a
pointing device called a mouse a
standard keyboard and a special key set
we have here and we're going to go for a
picture down in our laboratory in Menlo
Park and pipe it up that'll show you
from another point of view more about
how that Mouse works come in Menlo Park
ok there's Don Andrews hand in Menlo
Park and in a second we'll see the
screen that he's working and the way the
tracking spot moves in conjunction with
movements of that Mouse I don't know why
we call it a mouse sometimes I apologize
it started that way and we never did
change it alright as it moves up or down
or sideways so does the tracking spot
and the the principles for its operation
are quite easy to see you'll turn it
over Don can you hear me Don which turn
it over and we'll see right it's
principle is that there are two wheels
that roll along the surface but since
our right angles in kind of sharp edges
want to roll the other slide in one
direction each of it each of these
wheels controls through a potentiometer
with a voltage output sampled by an a/d
D converter the numbers taken in by the
computer at sample times as to what the
horizontal vertical components are to be
of where it should put the tracking spot
and as the mouse moves over surface then
each of those wheels either slide
sideways without rolling or
rolls an amount that very closely
duplicates the particular component of
horizontal or vertical in the net motion
it makes all right if you take a mouse
and move it to some closed trajectory
back to exactly the same point usually
the tracking spot will come back to
exactly the same place it was on the
screen and for that sense it wouldn't
work well if you're trying to trace maps
or other figures and diagrams but the
way we use it continuously inclusively
is to watch the screen and to follow it
around and we use this Pyrenees device
to move that tracking spot and your
honor in the tracking spot you really
don't care whether it follows exactly
this amount in fact we've had it at
times where our tracking device you had
to move in an arc like that to make the
spot that tracking spot go on a
horizontal line and people adjust it to
it and we go like that to go in a
straight line and wouldn't even know
that they were doing it other features
of the mouse are that it stays put I can
lift it and replace it without having a
spot change so I can adjust where I want
it for my comfort and these control
buttons on the top are used quite a bit
and I'll show you a little bit later how
some of those are used now the keyboard
in the middle is essentially a standard
typewriter keyboard except for a few
special keys out on the side the
computer knows it instantly when you hit
one and makes an appropriate response
this device over here is unique to us
and we always have to justify and
explain it we'll do it reverse order
I'll explain it first it provides for
you the one hand equivalent of what you
can do with a keyboard there are five
keys normally each finger sits on a key
and depressing any one key at a time
produces a character and any two keys at
a time also in fact any combination of
depressing of which there are 31
combinations so Don soon learns and can
type them it
rather insert it I see
select s
they'll offer you a character if I hit W
it'll say delete word the arrow moves
back and forth to give me feedback my
tracking spot changes that gives me
feedback now tells me since it's an
arrow that it's armed back and do
something we get a lot of feedback let
me restore a view like this to show you
this is more normally the way we work
with feedback up here or here I'm shown
not working that's an echo register that
normally gives you the last six
characters that you use oops not working
right the last six characters and left
shifts continuously so you can look up
any time and see what have I just struck
and that's very good feedback here are
characters that show me the different
viewing parameters few specs they get
large at times in which I can add hit
single strokes that change those view
parameters and each of those mean
something to me and they're being large
a particular times tells me I can hit
very quick abbreviation for changing the
view so I can say I'd like to go to
produce but I'd like to go to produce
they get big I like to say one branch
only and let me look just that low and I
see it oh I can say I'd like to see one
line only I can see so these ways I move
around the way I get feedback up here
the way I use both hands to coordinate
to tell the computer what command and
what's short literals I want are all
carefully designed to go together to
make the repertoire
we talked about the devices and now the
nature of the dialogue or the kind of
feedback we get from the computer for
each of the discrete character strokes
and actions that the user goes through
when he's making when he's executing a
command so that system is really
represented to a user by the repertoire
of commands he has by the function of
each of those commands and by the
control dialogue he has for each of them
so they all together going and making a
design and to do it well you have to be
very careful about the nature of the
functions in that repertoire and the
nature of the way their control so we've
developed a very special language for
talking with extreme precision about
these control both the command functions
and the control dialogue for them a
little bit later when we tell you about
the programming Jeff you listen we'll
bring in some special examples to you of
the languages we've used actually to
program at high level these functions
and the control feedback that we get in
these control dialogue but that's what
we're going to call the control metal
language in there let's see how we're
doing here okay let's move our little
marker to say we've now gotten control
techniques by us and let's talk about
implementation of our online system I
put over here a reminder when I jump to
here
I want the view on below up to unfold in
a certain way so I just told myself hit
those parameter specs when this is large
and then execute and yes I see that
underneath I am going to talk next about
hardware design and then software design
and that's going to be done by Jeff
Wilson from mineral park hardware design
inviting me to jump on a link here aha
he told me there wasn't such a thing as
a link under there
bring me back remembering how I should
have gone through this to go down
another level in hardware design there
are two features we want to talk about
here to bring out to you the way in
which we've gotten the kind of
responsiveness and flexibility we need
in this instrumentation environment so
way often bill English's file bill was
responsible for the design of all of our
hardware there's an outline he made of
the way the controllers work for the i/o
controlling now from this line to the
right at things that we added to a
conventional STS 940 system and this is
the swapping drum it's got two buses
working accessing - for 16 K banks the
CPU has one bus and the peripheral
equipment has another and the good work
of project genie at Berkley an our
project that evolved in 940 time-sharing
hardware and software produced a very
neat priority system on this bus such
that it can say I'll defer my access to
a given Bank until the CPU doesn't want
it or I'll defer it once or twice or
three times but then I really need it to
give me priority in that way this bank
can strip in memory many many accesses
to these while the CPU is hopping from
bank to bank and its successive accesses
we've taken advantage of that to put all
of our control out here a large 96
million character Bryant disk forgiving
backup storage for ourselves our to
display systems each of which drives six
displays and all of which are refreshed
out of core and the input controller
which samples the keyboards the key sets
the mice of each station about 15 times
a second and our printer and the Opera
Network coupling here all come in
through that same priority basis so they
can all be working full tilt and we find
that we get very low in
ference and cpu cycles being interrupted
or interfered with something like a
ratio maybe one to one and a half
percent here that it can't get one wants
to when this might be running 50 60 70
percent of the available memory cycles
that it can handle all right the input
controller stuffs it into core without
over interfering with the CPUs process
and then just interrupts a time-sharing
system if there's something new and says
they take care of this user and the
display system reads out of core and it
treats from a tree structure like set of
links to cycle itself automatically and
take all that material out put it to
this place something like 15 times a
second without any interference from CPU
requirements all right so that system is
allowed us at one time sharing computer
take care of a lot of stations let me
talk to you about the display systems
the other aspect of the things that
we've built on here that are slightly
unusual
all right
for that I'd like to switch two men
apart and get a view from a camera
they're actually looking at the hardware
so these are the units that develop the
displays the computer constructs it
right on a small high-resolution CRT
which you're focusing in on right now
and in fact that's the CRT whose camera
on the right looking at is generating
the text view that's being piped down
here in my console so as those are faded
in and out between the two you can just
sort of compare them so that's very nice
there's my mouse moving around in Menlo
Park
my tracking spot so our displays work
with those being watched by commercial
cameras look at my black bag commercial
TV cameras 875 line scanning rates of
the fairly high resolution look at that
from there and out to the display
station a standard video microwave
system if we're back up the camera shot
a little bit we'll see that we have a
whole rack full of equipment here
serving 12 of them but you'll notice
quite a lack of cameras mounted on we
seem to have stolen them all for the
show so we only have several consoles
that work right now because the cameras
are mounted to give you these different
special views all right there quite a
few advantages we use this particular
display system Hardware technique pretty
much as a an expediency for an
experimental system we had to build we
originally were going to build storage
tube displays into here but we couldn't
get them delivered a year and a half ago
when we really had to firm up our design
so we as an experience he went to this
ram has been developing some very nice
video stuff they were kind enough to
show us how these these controllers and
all would work with video so we went
ahead with this very simple brute force
way of having them video signal
generated by looking at a small CRT well
it turns out that that means CRT its
incremental cost the video camera
and a monitor total about $5,500 which
is cheaper than most fairly good
resolution random deflection display
monitors would be so they come out well
on the price of the hardware turns out
that also that the cathode of the camera
tube in in just black-and-white usage
like this you can back off the scanning
current of it so that it's a sticky
cathode so that actually it doesn't
erase the image on it by each sweep it
may take three or four scans and so with
something like a fifteen cycle a second
refresh rate on those CRTs the camera
the one that's generating this is the
well was the one we looked at it with a
few minutes ago have short term storage
in there it's quite different from long
persistence but gives us the flicker
free display here for quite a flicker II
display there this lets us use that
displayed generation hardware for three
to four times as many display stations
as otherwise you'll notice if we get
just the text alone that there's a small
effect by that bug smearing but it's not
that bad and that comes from the memory
in the vidicon too
okay so much for that I'd like now to
have us bring in Jeff Wilson from Menlo
Park and we'll switch to his console
he's sitting one just like this been
working independently hi Jeff
we're not hearing it very well you're
not hearing me how about now that's fine
okay all right I'm sorry you can't see
everybody here but I can't very well
neither because of the lights so Krabat
even okay I'd like you to talk to them
about the way the special languages have
helped in making flexible design and
study available for us of the user
features the functions and the
repertoire of the commands as well as
the control dialogue for them and then
also it'd be an interesting example here
because programmers new programmers are
the ones who most intensively found use
for working online as we're building up
show them how you structured the your
system guide okay okay I think we can do
that we can get sort of a good feeling
for the way the whole system is put
together by looking through the system
guide the the file is one that system
programmers sort of put together help
them get around
NLS right now it didn't be a fairly
large program it's not huge by a lot of
standards but it is getting pretty big
this picture in our system guide file is
a picture of the overlay structure on
our overlays our page sizes so they're
not too big in the 940 but each each
label in this picture names a code file
and each each one is oh-three to 20
pages long I mean 20 text pages if you
printed them out just to sort of show
how can use a file like this to move
around in the code and also how the code
is put together as I said each jump each
label in the picture is the name of an
overlay which is also the name of that
file but it also happens to be the name
of a statement in this file by selecting
one of these pictures and moving there
oh I was going to do something for you
to let you see better
what did I do go back to the origin
start will bringing back all the
parameters there now let me move up from
the picture I can move to a little
section in this file which is an area
that system programmers leave around
notes for each other it's nothing much
interesting here a little bit about the
documentation in the patch space that's
left right from this spot I can actually
move on to the file suppose that I were
going out that control metalanguage Doug
was talking about just try to see for
example the routine used in the delete
word or move word let's go look at move
word construct I just select this link
and here is the file this file is
written in a one of these many special
languages that we've designed so I just
move down through it find the move
command move let's look here for move
word you want to point out how you know
it's move word yeah I was just going to
look at that Doug as I was stepping down
to that I was sort of not only moving to
the file but the structure of the of the
code is rigged in such a way that it's a
description of a finite state machine
and
so I was following the character as a
person would type to execute that
command down here underneath that I see
that the routine is qmw over in the
overlay TextEdit so let's go back to
that other file move back to our picture
again and find where overlay text edit
is it's right down here so we'll go and
sort of move down to that one the the
text edit overlay illustrates a lot of
the different kinds of things that we've
done this file has two major kinds of
code in it
first one is many of these different
special languages that we've built up
see I'm trying to find qmw that's right
so down here someplace
there we go let's see oh yeah the two
kinds of code this is still the kind
from the other file but the qmw routine
the first subroutine the second
servicing that it calls which is sort of
interesting is moved word for word
delimiter I'm sorry this routine is
written in our content analysis language
and it takes a text string and finds the
definition of a word without for
punctuation and it finds any special
blanks around it and finds pointers that
describe that word another interesting
one is the next subroutine here we look
at it it's in another special language
that we've built up it takes the
pointers left over from the delimiter
routine and the text in the file and
reconstruct the statement after the
edits been done let's see where was I in
this file the other portion of the file
is is written in the language that we
call mo l stands for machine oriented
language the the mo L is a in a sense
it's a high-level language and it has
great structure and good control
constructs like if statements and well
statements but it's also very very close
to machine language 940 machine language
people talk about the actual registers
of the machine and you talked about
doing indirect addressing this language
has helped us write the kind of fast
tight code that we want that we have to
have to operate in the time sharing
system and at the same time it's given
us a lot of flexibility of
it's also the phrase structure of the mo
L designed to sort of mesh with the blog
structure of nol and LS so they've got a
wild statement to see what's in that
wild statement I can move down and see
it's three statements which is an if
statement the if statement is two is a
single if statement which has an infant
an else part not whole block opens up to
all of that so by using the mo L like
this I'm able to move around very
quickly in my mo L files also able to
sort of zoom in and out of things one of
the besides the sort of program
organizational benefits that we get from
designing all the social purpose
languages we've been able to design the
syntax of these languages so that they
fit with our linking structure and the
conventions that we've set up in the age
we built to help us in NOS itself to
move around between them one of the ways
we've managed to implement all of these
languages is by designing a compiler
compiler which we call tree meta all of
our compilers are written in tree meta
I'd like to add that we're very thankful
to some people assistant Development
Corporation for helping us get started
on one of the notions in tree meta urban
book and Val Schori were just invaluable
in helping us get started
the by having all of our compilers in
written in a in a high-level language
themselves we've been able to change
them all the time so we're not only able
to quickly modify the syntax of the
control language for nls itself or the
meanings of of the commands by by
working in our high-level language but
we're also able to go in and just change
the compilers as quickly as we have to
accommodate all sorts of new hardware
features and experimenting that we do
like that in a system guide file there
were three sections the first one
serve this program structure in the
picture and those fast links we looked
at we're sort of age that the system
programmers have built up to just move
back and forth and leave notes second
section here is on retrieve 'l think
i'll let that go for a while right now
the third section more notes that
programmers leave around about bugs
things that are wrong with our system
right now I got my blank line on hundred
I well anyway one of the interesting
things that n LS does just an advantage
of being online is it keeps track of who
you are and what you're doing all the
time so on these statements on
everything every statement that you
write it keeps track of who you are and
when you did it so not only can people
leave notes around for each other but
sort of automated and how they automated
eight here that tells us who did it when
they did it I can set up search patterns
I think these will probably be talked
about later so that sort of summarizes
what the thing looks like and how its
put together is there anything that I
haven't talked about Doug that we were
supposed to bring up I I think you
wasn't getting my notes right here
you're doing very well Jeff Thanks you
ought to see yourself with a 15-foot
face I'd like to okay
I guess I'll just turn it back to you
then I might add that people want to
come up to our room sometime we're more
than anxious to talk to people about
languages and meta compilers and all of
the games assistant programmers like to
play so I think I'll sort of turn it
back with that well Jeff can you how
about going back to that place in the
control meta language before you start
down the dialogue protocol person would
use okay right over here in main control
yeah
and off to another file where we're
looking at real code now and there's a
branch of it down there yeah they start
on trans or all subroutines that are
pretty meaningless and it's bill be a C
means what case and it's what what's the
person going to ask for so open that one
level down right now all those things in
parentheses that in LS are the names of
those statements are actually in the
programming language it works here the
way it's identified that's the character
or user hits if he hits a D for instance
a D here for delete right there
alrighty it's a deed that line tells you
what the response is supposed to be the
computer supposed to display certain
material on top of the screen and then
it's supposed to wait until the user
does the next thing why don't you trim
it to one line uh yeah it's going to do
that why doesn't my branch only work oh
that's all that branch ok good EBT well
it's easy ok I don't want to insult you
by saying that it's easy to get a new
view the da no to say I then if he's hit
a D and it sets up what it says there
you can uh pump one level below it and
that's the next block down in this
special language and you see well if
after the D he hits something else like
a W it goes on from there to say what it
is the pewter supposed to do in response
so this language here in its
hierarchical structure resembling the
branching tree of choices user user
makes specifying at every point what the
computer does in feedback and the
optional choices and down in the end
then specifying the actual function like
deleting a word what's a word and what
do you mean by delete and for what's a
word that's specified off of a
subroutine he showed you in a special
language to find in there what a word is
and it doesn't take a lot of programming
skill they learn how to read these
languages because they're at the concept
level almost where the user wants to
work and so for us in our experimental
environment our users are beginning to
learn this so that we can look at that
to find out how the system works
somebody's English text translation on
specific though maybe well Jeff you did
a great presentation especially the last
part thank you
thanks very much we'll come back now and
I'll get my prop with my text and we'll
go on to talk about some of the oh no
wrong text right day thank you very much
well remember that we were talking about
hardware and software implementation and
if we go all the way back we see that we
finished control implementations control
techniques and implementation and let's
move on to the marker down here to keep
track of where we are we're ready now
I'd like to run through some of the ways
in which we actually have used this the
programming itself represents a very
good example for me we're falling from
the basic philosophy that concepts come
in structure and you'd like to structure
your database your information base that
way and have a tool of getting around it
I think that the way we've got our
records for our programming organized
and then the special languages using a
hierarchy using the names of places in
there as labeled two statements so both
nls treats them as a name it can jump to
the compiler that compiles those files
we were looking at treats those as the
labels for those subroutines and
procedures it all makes a very nice way
to study and integrate and it's very
powerful exciting sort of thing to show
I hope people do come up to open house
and look at that let me go down here and
open up under usage and say first some
application examples user documentation
is a straightforward sort of use if you
were a user here and came and sat down
early you'd want to get familiar with
this file let's go look Dave castro's
has written a user's guide so down the
hall and Dave caster's his office in his
drawer pulling out the file we go and
there you see it the top view of it with
the sort of the outline but I'm
interesting interest
just showing this view very quickly you
want to find out the definitions of a
lot of terms you're sort of a glossary
well let's do the thing called freeze a
statement and then oh and say put that
at the top and won't be hold that
statement now it's going to be frozen in
our display scanning windows from the
dotted line down and then we know about
names and jumping to name and so we can
say what's a bug Oh down here tells you
what a bug is I see well let's see
what's the level select level tells you
what level is what's what's a mouse
that's fun to look at there's a mouse
you can just point so you can set here
in point to successive terms and it goes
there the scanning window goes there the
frozen glossary stays and you can see
the definitions very nice and some of
the definitions you can recognize terms
here that's an odd one maybe that's the
name let's just see Oh
sure enough it's a sketch showing the
mouse and the mouse buttons very nice to
have documentation like this and you as
a user could sit down and early find
your way around in this to find the
definitions descriptions procedures for
commands and all like that so let me go
back to my guide
and say the next thing you want to study
or modify papers all right it happens to
be that we wrote a paper for these
proceedings it's in the files there it
is
top level see it's interesting to study
something like that what does they have
to say about user systems go to there
open up a level I only want to see that
branch
Oh what about file studying open that up
Oh specification is a form of view what
about that let's just open it all now I
can read it gee that's an interesting
way to study this material incidentally
was organized for printing and printed
out and it's from this file directly we
printed out printed it out on the form
we sent to the to the printers and these
things up in here these three letters
and equals our special directives we
embed in our text so when the output
processor does it it puts in things like
headers like this says make the header
on every page BGC Engelbart abstract
that's prescribed form the number
between lines double-spaced it all these
others have characteristics get write
justification page numbers all kinds of
control in there all right so much for
paper writing well print out directives
I feel a little rushed for time I'm
going to skip that that can show you a
guide of all the directives for printing
out if you were user you'd want to go to
that so you can have links to it joint
file usage is something that is very
powerful here I went off to a file that
we were working on as we were getting
ready the early parts of this
presentation and it was a message it was
a something that three of us used a lot
between us to coordinate the planning
tasks contingency plans the special
needs and nls for the fall joint things
like that we developed a message
technique so we could be messages for
each other under their usage conventions
and let me just tell you about that
underneath here we direct messages to
each other that we can unfold and see
but many times you didn't want direct
messages
as much as you just like to go through
and leave a message for somebody so we
worked out that the conventions would be
where as an example the exact the
convention we're going to use is that we
would send a message to guy if I want to
send Bill English wke a message I would
put that in the file wke from DCE
with that pound sign in between so any
statement the smart like that means
there's a message to him from me if I
want to I can say it's also was also for
Dave Evans like that so that's from me
to both of them all right we have this
thing we call a Content analyzer Jeff
mentioned briefly in which we can write
expressions in a language let's just
come down here and look here's a little
expression in a special language that
means I'm going to look for mr. xxx a
message from him all right what if I say
I want that xxx to be DCE
that says someplace in there I want to
find that pound sign and DCE so with a
little compiler I'm safe from there
compile it comes back and says I did it
okay and now I can say all right only
show me the statements that passed the
test that someplace in them they have
that string there they are so whenever
one of those that's from DCE BCE can go
down and look for it how this one you
know here this is to anybody from DCE
and I can say well turn off that filter
how about for so-and-so so I can say all
right this is for wke a message for Bill
the rest of this pattern here says it's
got to be followed by any number of
commas and letter triplets but
eventually by a pound sign or it doesn't
go
well let's compile and see okay pass the
test all right
there's her wke for wke for him and a
dummy okay so oh it wasn't through
searching think about time sharing
computer is that once in awhile it gets
it gets being asked for business from
other places if the response we want
runs into a fair amount of computation
we run into other people will bump us
off to do it and so sometimes it will
take a while to filter through all the
patterns that content analyzer
sometimes
if I'm disabled slightly because this
needs to be hung up in the wrong place
I'll have to run by the keyboard that's
a real bag yeah you know I'm so used to
working with one hand and this that I
can hardly remember what to do on a
keyboard anyway I want to go back to the
file the other guys the other end the
time charting system we're going to go
in and see why I hope some hardware guys
ought to I want to bring in that file
and the categories we have set up for
these people
well that means rolls they're going to
play and that they can play and want
their open house duty or the duty back
in Menlo Park during those two days
they're going to be this is a turn so
under here on the rolls we have quite a
few rolls somebody played just
coordinating that knows an LS software
there was a time sharing software the
knows the display hardware the
transceiver hardware user references we
need to cover those at each session and
we also say they're these different
sessions available well let's jump down
how I do from jump down and look at this
duty roster again where we look
underneath each guy and we realized we
put a bunch of these code terms under
there to say okay that's minimal part
Tuesday morning open house Tuesday
evening mineral park Wednesday morning
he knows then LS and time sharing system
so these are the categories and now I
can go back and using that using that
content analyzer sort of thing I can set
myself up fairly nicely with special
patterns like I can say here's a pattern
all set up so it'll say I want to see
those people that are open house Tuesday
evening so I just can compile
I can pile out successfully I say all
right let's see it so it does says open
head Tuesday evenings open house Tuesday
evenings Andrews Evans upon head you'll
have to give me forgetting slightly
rattle when this thing starting to give
me trouble alright these four people are
on Tuesday evenings that's very handy if
I want to I can go to a view that only
shows me what category I was filtering
out and I can use another thing I call
markers I haven't told you about maybe
before you notice that many times when
I'm doing something to operate on
cemented II I use this bug to point
directly well it so happens we have a
feature we call marker such that any
place in a given file I can place a
marker on a character and give it up to
a three-letter name then at any time in
any command where it's appropriate to
point and push this right-hand button to
say select I can hold the button down
and enter that name and let the button
up and instead of it taking the
character I'm pointing at with this bug
it takes the coin takes the character
for an operand that I had named and I
put that marker on a name so off
someplace I've got markers on patterns
already set up 400 T e open house
Tuesday evening and such so I can say
execute compiler from here and I can
type in open house Wednesday afternoon
OWA and say execute it says I did I say
all right let's see what you've got open
house Wednesday afternoon these are the
people that are going to be there Oh
what about open house Wednesday or
Tuesday evening the OT e execute open
house Tuesday so these kind of pattern
matches and markers and freezing
statements and jumping on things give us
a great deal of power jumping around and
moving jumping around and study
right okay I there are other things to
show here
I forgot that it didn't need to freeze
here all right design documentation for
our hardware in system analysis records
I'll just jump very quickly to that just
to show you that we use the same kind of
structured stuff in the design of our
hardware where here is the design of a
buffer register and these are the
different components labeled by comments
in a language it's going to digest this
file and produce the wiring list we can
open up another level and see that
underneath of these are all the logical
equations we can come in just as quickly
as anything search down jump search for
different patterns jump on links modify
and put them out we compile them back
all right I think I'll jump skip the
rest of these because time is crowding
us and I'd like to go to a little
sequence here that is we a very
important one now you've seen most of
the way through here how this serves as
a very powerful tool for an individual
to work when he's studying doing is
planning designing debugging documenting
but we also saw to the medium of leaving
messages for each other and filtering
them that people can collaborate quite
well over a period of time by working on
joint files in fact you can have a joint
file and go leave a message and get a
response in a matter of minutes because
they're all available instantly by
anybody from one of these terminals but
there's another degree of collaboration
which is very important in which we're
just going to be setting up in the next
few months the hardware to do computer
eight but here we're going to set it up
with a little bit of people aid too so
I'm going to establish a collaborative
mode between me and another terminal
bill paxton is that a terminal back at
SR I and the first thing I do to do that
of course would be say hey I'm granular
oops
to call this command we have to go into
the executive mode and set executive 'ti
to a special level
and then continue with an LS so that
free demonstration some of the
versatility alright
special command I'd like to link to Bill
and I don't know what his terminal is
right now so I have to ask for somebody
connect me to him audibly audio Lee so
bill will you come in through this
intercom hello duck i I I need to know
what terminal you're on bill thirteen
okay I'd like to have him see my text
and so this special thing if I label
thirteen we'll switch switch over so on
his display he sees my text so I'll
execute it and sure enough it does but
what's that running around well he's
looking in my text he'd like to have
something to say about it so we put on a
marker a tracking spot that he controls
so he's sitting in Menlo Park looking at
this text and he can point to it but we
carefully reserved for me the right to
control or operate on this so my bug is
more powerful in yours but we can have
an argument yeah over words
that's they call a bug fight so all
right so in case you have a listening
bill we've been going through lots of
examples and setting up in collaboration
here so that we can go on into
information retrieval and we set up now
audio coupling and we're both looking at
the same display and that'd be very
handy to work we can talk to each other
in point and maybe later I can hand you
the chalk on this blackboard like saying
here you control it but let's status
mode now and add another feature that
hardware-wise is available to the kind
of display we have I'd like to see you
while I'm working on it
so before I can do that I have to set up
my display in a certain way set it up so
it I see it over like that that leaves a
corner up there and I say now computer
do the automatic switching that will
bring in a camera picture from the
camera mounted on his console such as
the camera mounted on - hi bill that's
great now we're connected audio you can
see my work you can point out it and I
can see your face and we can talk so
let's do some collaborate you're silent
Oh
what do you want me to say key huh
there's nobody here but a large audience
go all right all right so let's so let's
go talk about information retrieval and
a lot of things I've been showing them
and jumping around and finding your way
relating back to the portrayal I gave
about MLS as an instrument on complex
data structures it shows them how we can
get around and find things I showed them
the content analyzers to help locate
things low key let's you had a file
kind of classifying retrieval stuff when
we switch to it yeah good
hey I can't point okay you on 13 or 12
well you're on 12 okay you had executive
you say you go where am I
there there you are right all right now
talking about hot retrieval Ursa you got
to defend that gonna give it to me
yep okay we've been talking about
retrieval all afternoon really that's
one of the main things you're involved
in doing every time you're changing a
view you're you're doing retrieval
really I've broken it up here into to
two main categories the first where you
have a known destination the second
where the destination is unknown these
really present two different problems
and there there are different commands
in the system naturally to take care of
these two different things
let's open this up take a look at what
we have under here oh good good both
direct and indirect the first where
you're making an explicit specification
and the second with implicit explain
what I mean by this in the first case
you're actually able to point it what
you want at the information you're
trying to retrieve and move it into view
with the jump to identity command you're
able to point at it either by by the
cursor or by using a pointer as you've
shown jump to name jump to link again
you're explicitly specifying by giving
the name or having the name occur in the
text for implicit specification by this
I mean using information that's been
stored by the system in order to specify
where you want to go in the first case
the information has been store
in the form of a memory of what you've
been doing recently so that you're able
to say jump - where - the view that I
just previously had so I can say jump
return and it'll take me back to the
view or jump return and I go to the view
that I had just before that or I can say
jump ahead and move back down again
jumps referring to the structure by this
I mean the structure of the file so that
you're able to say take me to the
successor of the statement I'm pointing
at our to the head of this branch things
like that content analysis we've covered
quite thoroughly let's go on to onto
this to the other main branch of
retrieval that we're talking about here
again I've broken it into direct and
indirect this is the case where the
destination is unknown when used by this
I mean you don't know where the
information is but you're able to
describe it
are you you know enough about it you can
find it either in a hierarchy or by
describing it with keywords by the use
of a hierarchy here I mean working down
through the hierarchical structure of
the file making use of the
categorization that's built into the
file this we've seen several times let's
just as another example to really make
this clear we've talked about the desire
to get hard copy of a file wanting to
get something printed out there's quite
a large system that takes care of giving
the heart of making a file for hard copy
you're able to specify how you want the
hard copy to look by getting various
directives one of the things you might
want would be Roman numeral page numbers
so let's go off to a directive file and
see what the directive is to get Roman
numeral page numbers I'm into the file
now here's the first level of the
hierarchy
let's open up page formatting we look we
want page numbering so we'll open that
up we find yes here it is Roman numerals
we find out the directive your bugs
right on it already don't here's the
directive we want so we work down quite
away into a hierarchy as you can see
this is quite a quite a nice way to be
able to very quickly find what you're
after let's go back to the previous file
now look at this last type by keywords
and associative reordering I mean the
use of terms from a specified vocabulary
to describe what it is that you're after
perhaps the best way to show this would
be just to draw a little picture the
the keywords can be selected from from a
list put the list over here you can have
any number of keywords I'll just put
down that to give the idea of what it is
and then we also group spelled out wrong
need any help
yeah how do you spell catalogue there it
is that close enough there'll be several
items in the catalog what we want to do
in its select things out of this catalog
what are the R stand for those are the
numbers that are used just like serial
numbers that's my own Dewey Decimal
System Howe any reference 3 reference
Ansel alright right okay and then the K
I guess would be keyword huh how's that
that's fine
each keyword then will point to various
items in the catalog so the first
keyword may point to those and then the
nth keyword will point to other ones and
there will be cases where they both
point to the same one when I select a
keyword I'm specifying that all of the
items in the catalog that it refers to
will be pulled out and given to me and
in the cases where I've selected several
keywords that refer to one particular
item that item will be given special
preference will be put at the head of a
list and then with that list of items
from the catalog we'll be able to use
the other forms of retrieval and jump
off and look at the items and then
continue the exploration
okay let's actually go ahead and do that
I'll go back to the systems guide file
we mentioned earlier that there is a
large part of that it's concerned with
with finding things this is our
documentation index for the NLS system
it's broken into the two parts the
catalog and the list of keywords
the catalog is just a long list that
goes off the screen that contains links
off to the various items in the
documentation there's actually an entry
here for each procedure in the system
hey this is the same file as Jeff was
looking at is them right let me system
guide for programmers to find things in
here's your same picture let me get down
here there we are see the first part is
the catalog second part contains the
list of keywords let's open that up
there again categorized into the various
categories that you would want to use to
describe what you're after let's look at
file handling and open that up here we
have the list of keywords that we can
use to describe things that have to do
with file handling the things in
parentheses the names of those are the
keywords this is just a name that's used
to keep track of it it can be the
keyword can be referenced from any place
in the text by this name then there's a
phrase following that it's a little more
descriptive that tell us what it's about
then following that there's a list of
the items in the catalog that are
referred to by that keyword yeah you're
only looking at one line for each
statement so you might see the first few
right so now I'm able to actually select
the keywords that I want to use to
describe what I'm interested in I can do
that just by pointing at it then it
writes the word up here and
other command accept to accept it like
an ass accept file control and I've
already accepted file referencing I'm
able to I'm also still on yes we hear
you some hoop
somebody hung up on us how do you say go
ahead with a mouse
we're on yes Doug you back Doug can't
hear yet okay so I selected several
keywords here I can go ahead and give
particular keywords greater weight the
weighting refers to how important that
keyword is in describing what I'm after
so I can give this one a weight of two
where this one previously will also will
just have a weight of one that means
that the items that are referred to by
this keyword will occur earlier in the
selection when we're finished okay let's
go ahead now say keyword execute this
will go off and get the items out of the
catalogue and reorder them and there we
have the results now I have I can use
these to jump to various places in the
file I'm still in the systems file the
item here is the name of the utility so
I can jump and get the information about
that utility in the file or you line
down some various things about it go
back on the previous view now if I want
to go up and get the information I want
to jump a link on this and here I have
the documentation on that particular
procedure after looking at that I can go
back again
and now I'm set up again to go and
continue looking I can look at the next
item and here I've got the results on
that so I can continue to proceed in
this way looking at looking at the
various documentation and going back and
continuing you to explore re specify the
search parameters and look at new
keywords well Doug I don't know if you
survived through that we had the
operator the telephone company hung up
on us I think halfway through you still
back on yeah I guess we've got to come
back and I'm sorry I can't say goodbye
to Bill oh I can hear you now oh here
you go
you've been talking all the time I saw
one when you leaned over and hung up the
phone for a while so I couldn't
interrupt you all right well thanks I
I'm sorry that we're pushed by pushed
when we're trying to describe each of
the features in this system this
particular one the keyword is very
powerful and could very well warrant on
such a whole paper on itself because the
it's gives us the power of keyword
descriptor kind of organization but with
the out of feature of giving weights to
the keywords so the results of the
search as you see right here are ordered
so that this one ended up meeting the
most requirements and adding the most
weight and down here could be one that
only was only associated with one of the
descriptors in the lowest weight one at
that so you have an order this
that's probably relevance and then right
with us all the links use out as a link
to go off to the file to find it this is
a directory of a set of procedures so
here's the procedures here's a list of
procedures for those keywords he chose
that all describes certain things about
him file handling and this will take you
off the actual source code looks like
Donna Andrews wrote them all his files
the name of the place in his file
and the views that you should open up so
that when you follow this on a jump to
link you just see
Pingo the overall view of that procedure
and then as he pointed out instead of
saying jump to lincoln jump to a name
within this file where these things have
descriptive material about that too so I
think for the software guide it's very
powerful
thanks very much bill we'll bring it up
and the combination of techniques for
getting around inside of the structured
software files and the way in which
organized way in which is
special-purpose languages we've
developed fit with us the structure
we've used really give a very powerful
set of techniques and I really enjoying
all of you who are software people and
industry to come up and work your way
through these to have some of the
software people during open house really
show you what's what by taking you
through that let me see my text and I'll
see what I can skip so we can get
through in the time we were supposed to
like ten minutes ago let me go back to
that view and
they're purposely making that dim so
that I'll hurry all right other things
we're going to talk about very quickly
are the range of activities underneath
in our program and I will just go very
quickly through these then a service
system development and user system
development would be to talk about those
a bit only requires me to establish the
distinction between those two kinds of a
system really we we've taken to
splitting the overall main computer
system into this dichotomy of these two
systems where the service system is what
appears at the turmoil when I push
button in this button I get that
response when I do this I get that it's
the repertoire of commands and the
services that that organization of
software and hardware and sometimes
people gives to me the user system is
what's beyond that given all that what
do I do with it
what kind of conventions for leaving
messages and for using the content
analyzer and for organizing our files
and how do we use the links and the key
word thing user system there and this is
something that it's kind of a new
element in systems research that we're
trying to establish wall so that we can
integrate that kind of user system work
where the peoples methods the concepts
they use the procedures the skills all
are developed in coordination with the
kinds of tools that they have within our
beta Rick then we also have an explicit
activity we call management system work
or we are taking some project money and
developing our own set of management
tools to help us manage these 17 people
and all these diverse activities in this
complex system and so we are beginning
to develop some of those and we'd be
happy to talk to you about those during
open house and a forthcoming involvement
is this aqua computer network
experimental network that's going to
come into
being in his first form in about a year
and end up some time later with some 20
experimental computers in a network and
they hope to be able to transmit across
the country with bandwidth so something
like 20 kilobits per second delay times
of less than a tenth of a second which
would be enough so that I could be
running a system in Cambridge over the
network and getting the same kind of
response on a CRT and it may be that
people there and the next time we have a
conference in Boston I'll try this from
there the and in that network we're
going to try to develop a special
service to provide network information
relevant Network information for people
for the kind of information that it
takes to operate such a network who's
got what services what protocol do I use
to get there who's up today on went
towards the users guide what can I find
a paper that describes this system that
so-and-so offers and that's going to be
a various think challenge for us to
utilize our our tools for organizing and
treating information and the last thing
here is just a little comment about
after all of this what's the product
that we're providing in this research
well it's a word about providing a
sample augmentation system the one we
use and not only that it's an
augmentation system that's provided to
augment computer system development and
beyond that we also are hoping that
we're developing quite a few design
principles for developing augmentation
systems and these I hope are
transferable things let me
I'd like into clothes and give you some
description of the support we've gotten
from the different people to produce
this and acknowledge that in the back in
Menlo Park we've got quite a team of
people surrounded by a bit of equipment
that have been busy listening to us and
trying to control on switch and these
monitors are up there where all the
displays when the cameras went from
what's unused the displays go here so
they can monitor the different signals
and switch and send us what one we want
all right and I particularly want to
give appreciation of building base who
is not only designed all of the hardware
or you know been responsible for the
hardware and software development that
gives us our service system over these
years but in the last few months put
together the considerable network of
intercoms and video switching and
controls and mixers they borrowed stolen
that would provide this show that make
it come off like that to the supporting
staff at van during martin hardy roger
bates john yah groans Diavolo who just
worked very very hard to make all of
this work out technically Dave Evans and
coordinating this and in managing the
open house we're going to have Donna
Andrews Jeff Lewis and Bill Paxton for
preparing and presenting a material
there and beyond those two we've gone a
great deal of support from SR I general
preparation support Stewart Brand from
Portola Institute has volunteered a good
amount of time to help us he was in that
picture of people there John Dustin
Barry vanes research lab was very
cunning saving our life by offering us
alone in this Ida for projector that's
the machine that's projecting this video
image up on the screen what we were just
bowled over when we found out what sort
of a display we could provide of what
we're doing and would very much
appreciate the loan of that and gene
Warren from TNT communications who
handle this we retained him to come and
help us be sure it work and he's just
been a tremendous sparkplug running
around fixing paging system for us and
the whole
in task for instruments and it has done
a lot extra work lately the telephone
company the telephone company has done a
great deal beyond beyond what they
needed to do to to fix this up once they
found out what kind of a wild thing
we're trying and their video Men
yesterday when trying to help us out
with phone circuits and all kinds of
actually a very very interesting credit
to bring up next is Herman Miller
research company this is an affiliate of
Herman Miller furniture company and why
are they connected with a computer show
well they've been bringing out some new
office furnishings then we've been very
much interested in developing the whole
environment for people working in a
different way and that means walls desk
surfaces console everything we got to
attractive their line that they started
working to help us equip offices and
study like that and one of their
designers John Kelly came one day and
spent a day working with us about our
ideas about a control consoles as being
separated from display consoles and
ended up making this on a chair that I
can get up move around and sit down
swivel and lock rock and lean back and
work very relaxed so I think this is a
very exciting stage we've just gotten it
and in our open house we have a full
office that's equipped like this with
this kind of a console that we're very
excited about and we'd invite you to
come to and without being formal I'd
like to really say that I am backed up
by a really very tremendous team of
these seventeen guys who have caught the
spirit of putting on this show
tremendously and just done an
overwhelming job about putting it all
together and Bob backing me all these
years in this wild dream of doing this
sort of thing and they're all catching
fire and I I want to just tell them all
right now I owe them a lot and a very
final credit goes to my wife and
daughters who are out here to whom I'd
like to dedicate this whole presentation
because of what they've put up with over
these
years with a husband that dedicated in a
monomaniac away to something very well
and so this whole presentation is
dedicated to you for people there and I
thank all the rusty very much for coming
to the dedication ceremonies
